# Angular-elements-tracer

General Info:
Angular-elements-tracer - This is an application I developed whilst researching into micro-frontends. It is extremely primitive but was built as more of a proof of concept of how server less lambda web sockets could bidirectionally communicate to separate angular projects (application). This means even though on here they are stored in one repo they have the potential to each possess their own repo (i.e., each folder name is a repo) due to the fact they each have independent dependencies &amp; build commands.

This project utilises angular elements architecture alongside ngx-build-plus to handle the ability of implementing multiple applications onto the same page via custom patching in terms of zonejs and identifiers. ngx-build-plus also allows us extra packaging functionality upon building the project that allows us to remove hashing, separate out styles, application and with the use of a custom webpack config the dependencies too.

On top of the interesting functionality in encompassing application injection into a root HTML application (in this project known as the 'chassis'). A couple of the application leverage ngrx to store global state within them. This ultimately means that once a message is received by the web socket service it fires an action with payload for the ngrx store to handle and reduce into new, deleted or updated state. This state is then an observable stream that can be subscribed to or &amp; asynchronously piped and handled within the template html.

This chassis application has been coded very simplistically with a basic html element level router to handle dynamic module injection and utilises a simple express server to serve up the static site and accompanying built app js files. However, this could be replaced as another angular host application to allow for built in rooting capability and accessibility to more functionality. Also, in production these 'built' js files will most likely served away at a different URL which would still work.

Another interesting factor investigated within the project is unlike the sing-spa implementation it uses web sockets as a sole source of interaction between each other. The current ideology of implementation of this is to use a web socket service on each application which reuses existing connections if it exists by adding the socket to a global 'window' level variable.

Overall, combining all these things gave a good scope of what is possible with micro-frontends and the whole notion of single page applications so ended up to be an extremely useful bare bones demo to reference when constructing more complex systems based on the same infrastructure. The use of the sole WebSocket communication system shone a light on the possibilities in regards to keeping each application pure and black box like, which is useful because the project may fit this schema of communication well when each application will be heavily dependent on web sockets anyway.

The serverless web sockets functionality is stored under another repo and will be required to run the project. You can find that here 